13th, 1984, in the home of Roy Benavides, a Vietnam
veteran.
Chest one, two, three, chest one, two, three. Your
life, how you, where you started and how you
decided to go into the service and this type of
thing? Well, I was born in Quirrell, right outside
of Quirrell, in a small farm. in 1935, on August
5th. And our parents, my brother and I, were
orphans. Our parents died at an early age.
And then after our parents died, we were adopted by
an uncle named Hernel Campo. My brother and I came
here in the mid-40s. And we started school here. I
started school. And I lettered and tracked. And I
was a Golden Glover, two-year Golden Glover for
the state of Texas. I fought in
Will Rogers Coliseum in Dallas. And then I decided
to quit school. I was advised not to. My teachers,
who still live here, I thought that I had a good head
on my shoulder, and they didn't want to see me quit,
but I was determined to make it out on my own.
However, I could see that I need the education, but
I was seeking adventure in a way that I was looking
for some certain love, not that my My adopted
parents didn't give it to me, but I guess the good
Lord just selects people with this instinct.
There was something you were searching for. Yes.
And so I dropped out of school in the eighth grade,
seventh grade, and I ran away from home. And I got
hungry and came back. And I think I ran away a second
time. but they caught me. And I was just searching
for an adventure. I was just, I guess I was just that
self-made youngster, you know, that had a mind of
his own, that could turn things the way he wanted
to. And I just couldn't wait to grow up. And the
uniform fascinated me. This was something that I
admired. looking at the World War II veterans and
the Korean veterans when they came back. And I knew
that this was for me. And I just couldn't wait to
join some sort of branch of the service. But then I
was told that I needed an education. Well, that in
mind, I decided to join the Texas National Guard if
they would accept it, which they did later when I
became of age. But I had one goal in mind to seek an
education in the high school diploma because I was
told during
those years that I was seeking enlistment in the
military that without an education, And without a
diploma, I didn't have a future. So that goes to say
that without either, you don't have, that's the
key to success. You don't have anything. And I had
talked it over with my uncle, with my adoptive
father who was disciplinary.
So you found out that education was going to be an
important part Very important. Well, later in the
years. But you know, I was just a wild youngster.
And I guess I was seeking a career and an adventure.
But I didn't know the steps to look into this. And
thank God that I had a lot of friends that took a lot
of interest in me here in El Campo and in the
military.
especially here,
I joined the Texas National Guard. I had a job, you
know, had a job, and I was doing good. But I joined
the Texas National Guard because I wanted to have
the feeling of the uniform. I wanted the
challenge, you know, to be given orders, to see if I
could cope with wearing the uniform. And that is a
great challenge, you know. In the Texas National
Guard, which I advise anyone now to join any unit,
reserve or Texas National Guard, Air Force,
Guard, you go to summer camp for two weeks, you
know, you become a soldier for two weeks. You
become a soldier in active duty once a month, you
know, and then you go on maneuvers. And this, I was
breaking myself into to being what I wanted to be.
And I liked it. And after two years, well, I went to
school to Fort Knox, Kentucky. And I got to live in a
regular military barracks with regular army men
and everything. And hearing the trumpets, you
know, go up and and playing Reveille at 6 o'clock in
the morning and playing tab to 10 o'clock at night,
Lifetime and everything. And I just loved it. And
this was for me. This was for me. Military life was
like a second love for you. Yeah, so I just couldn't
wait to just come back and say, hey, look, I want to
join the Red Army. But then, when I was there at Fort
Knox, Kentucky, on active duty, I met some
paratroopers. And here in El Campo, I met some, uh,
Mr. Kinehart, Colonel Kinehart and, uh, and, uh,
Garrett and Mr. Colonel Garrett and, and others
that had been in the Airborne during World War II in
Korea. And I wanted to join the Airborne. I wanted
to be a paratrooper because I learned that the more
qualifications you have, the better off you'll be
if you're going to make the Army career. However,
you need that education. You need that high school
diploma. And I just couldn't wait to get back to El
Campo to quit the National Guard to go back into
active duty. And I did. I came back and I told my
uncle, of course, you know, I come from a very
disciplinary family. My uncle was the deputy
sheriff of Horton County for over 30 years. I'm
calling him . And you had to be of age, you know, to
leave that. The old Hispanic costume, you know,
had to be 21 years of age. Heck, even the older
brothers, cousins, they were 21, 22, they didn't
even smoke in front of me. You know, that's how much
respect we had for one another. And the girls, they
didn't date. So... A lot of things have changed
today, haven't
they? Oh, my God. A tremendous change. I guess you
might say it was a turnover. Complete turnover.
Turnaround. 180 degrees. So when I came back, you
know, I just casually...
told my uncle that I was going to the active duty.
But I had one goal in mind. How old were you when you
went into active duty? I was 18, 18 when I went to
active duty. And I had that one goal in mind to keep
my high school diploma. Which it turned out to be, I
had, I'd say rough times. The military or the
airborne, or ranger trained, or special forces,
whatever training. It's only as hard as you want it
to be. Well, back then, was there much
discrimination toward being that you were
Hispanic or toward black? Was there a lot of
discrimination, or was the military? Well, there
was. But not as much as in civilian life? Well,
there was. In some way, you could feel it, but then
you were in uniform. Because remember, you take an
oath. And any man that takes an oath to serve his
country, to take orders from officers or
non-commissioned officers,
there is a pride within him. So therefore,
irregardless whether you come from the South,
North, or east or west, you know, you have that
pride and you took that oath. I saw some
discrimination, and I felt some at times, but I've
proven to myself and to others, you know, that I was
a defender of this country and I'm an American. And
I felt proud to be an American. I served with some,
so to speak, rednecks, And I served with some
blacks that hated redneck. And I served with some
Hispanics that hate Hispanic. Not hate, but then
they were what we would call in those days
coconuts. Brown on the outside and white on the
inside. And I served with all of them. The
presentation that you make to this individual,
the professionalism that you display,
I have a plaque right there that I committed a very
serious offense one day at one time. And it was so
serious that I could have gone to jail. I could have
been going to the penitentiary for 15 years. And I
have lived by that motto of duty, honor, and
country. And I later found out what that duty,
honor, and country meant. That a man should not
cheat, lie, or steal, or tolerate those that do.
And that was me. That, to me, was what I was looking
for in the military. And that is the motto of
Westman, a cadet in the military academy. So I have
lived by that. And now I'm an adopted graduate of
that academy. I have a saber, a graduated saber. To
become a professional soldier is something that I
always look forward to, just like anyone else here
in life. You know, you're a student. You want to be
the best, and I hope you'll be. Any individual that
seeks employment in General Motors, or IHOP, or
CP&L, he's going to be the best. And he's going to
live by some standards that he sets. And he sets his
goals, and he's going to reach them. Well, I set my
goals, and I set my standards. And I set a model that
I live by. I did.
How long were you in the service before you went to
Vietnam? Well, let's see. I joined the National
Guard in 1951 and 1952, later part of 1951. And I
joined the active duty in 1955. And I completed
basic training. Then I went to Korea in later part
of 1955. Where did you do your basics? I went
through Beckett training at Fort Royal,
California, and at Fort Carson, Colorado. In
fact, in Fort Carson, I met...
I
met also the... Tony Morton? No, not Tony Morton.
The manager for the New York Giants. He was a hop
head. I mean a hard head. Excuse me. And Farron
Young, I met him there. He was taking back the
training. And then I went to Korea in
the latter part of 1955. I came back in 58 and I went
to Berlin, to Honey Anchor, and I served there 57,
58. I came back in 59 and I met the lady, Elvis
Presley, in Orchapa, Arkansas. And he was going to
Beijing train there, getting a haircut. I imagine
that was a shock for him. Well, I didn't even know
that he'd become a star.
And then from there, I went to Fort
Gordon, Georgia, a military police school. I
graduated second in my class. And incidentally,
the men that I was supposed to graduate first, but
because of my professionalism, I guess, because
of the standards that I've set, and they couldn't,
my men couldn't follow or meet up to them, I got some
physical contact with one of them, and so that kept
me from being the first undergraduate. And my
buddy, Arnie Treville, who graduated first, he's
an FBI agent.
I served with the military police in Fort Bowen,
Georgia. Then I drove for the commander in
general. I was selected to drive for him. Then I
went airborne.
I remember what the non-commissioned officer
told me about the more qualifications you have,
the better off you are in the military. And I was
going to school during those times. I was going to
take in my GED. But because of duty, you know, and
going out to the field and everything, that was
kind of hard. And I only had a few more, oh, I guess
about eight hours to get my diploma. And I put in for
airborne, which I always wanted to go airborne.
But because I was driving for the commanding
general, I didn't have the time. And I finally got
accepted to go airborne, to go to the 82nd Airborne
Division of Fort Bend, North Carolina. And then I
was married in 1959.
In fact, today, we were just talking about the
date, because we just had some friends
celebrating the 20th anniversary. And I couldn't
remember my date. So please don't ask me. I think it
was June the 7th in 1959. And
we lived in Fort Bragg, North Carolina for 15
years, off and on. I was stationed there with 82nd
Airborne Division. I finally completed my high
school and I got my diploma.
And then I joined the Special Forces, the Green
Berets, which later was known as the Green Berets.
Then it wasn't when they were training. I went
through some real rough, rough training. But I
enjoyed it and I loved it. The better, the harder it
was, the better I loved it. Then I went to, well, I
traveled to the South and went to the United States
on assignment, often on
a train assignment. I went to Vietnam
in 1955, as an advisor. And I was an advisor to a
Vietnamese infantry battalion, airborne
infantry battalion. One of the very hardest jobs
that I ever had. I say hard is because I didn't know
the language and I knew my job, but it was hard to
perform your duties through an interpreter to
other people and to live their life, to follow
their customs. It was very hard. We were in the war,
the United States was committed. And then the
United States would not accept our presence
there. So this was entirely different for
professional soldiers. Did the soldiers over
there, how did they feel about, you know, because
most of the people in America were against the war,
you know. Was it hard on the morale of the soldiers
in Vietnam? It was hard in a way in terms of the war
that the American people had no support for us. And
to us, it seems that we're just as Americans as they
are. And here we are here, and my uncle and aunt, my
father and mother would not accept me, would not
come back again. You know, I feel like a traitor. I
feel like, hey, Jerk, what are you doing in your
uniform? You know, all the other soldiers
returning from World War I and World War II,
everybody came back and there was, you know, but
the Vietnam soldiers didn't get the same
reception, did they, as the other soldiers from
the other wars? No, we didn't get that same
respect. But, you know, in later times, I've
learned that
the American public, that the American people,
They just got too much education, not enough
common sense. Do you think the media has a lot...
Well, uh... Has...can...can...
You know, make the... The news media, yeah. They
did that in a sense, but let me tell you. The news
media was spreading the word out only according to
what the public wanted to hear. You know, I work
with intelligence, and I don't want to give myself
away, because with the Green Berets, you know, we
talked, we, uh, held a lot, we conducted a lot of
international missions and everything. But
this, this society, this modern society, knew
what we were doing. They wouldn't accept it
because The legislators would not let the public
know exactly what they wanted us to do there.
Nobody knew the real reason y'all were there. It
was the legislators in Washington that committed
us there, which the public was entitled to know
where we were committed to because They are the
taxpayers. They are the people that elect the
legislature.
You know, at times, I just wonder, of course, I'm
writing my autobiography now, and part of it will
come in my story, but I just wonder if any of these
big corporations didn't have so much interest It
was big money for them. That's right. And so, in a
way, we were protecting their interests.
War always meant money for the industry. Yeah,
because of the reproduction of material and
everything. The economy always went up during a
war. you know, the extra production of materials
needed.